# Comparative Performance Evaluation of Elliptic Curve ElGamal and Menezes Vanstone Schemes in Securing Biomedical Data

Recently, cases of medical identity theft and insecurity have increased tremendously due to the swelling volume of unsupervised medical data that are obtained from different sources, including the internet. Some useful steps have already been taken to secure these data, such as the adoption of Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) schemes. While there are various ECC schemes, Elliptic Curve ElGamal (ECEG) and Elliptic Curve Menezes-Vanstone (MVEC) are the two commonly used ECC schemes for securing medical data. However, surveyed literature shows that there is a paucity of research on the comparative performance evaluation of these two schemes for securing biomedical image data. Thus, this study employs five performance metrics (Histogram, Entropy, Correlation, Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio, and Structural Similarity Index Matrix) to assess the comparative performance efficiency of the two Elliptic Curve Cryptography schemes in protecting medical data. In carrying out the study, ECEG and MVEC schemes were implemented. The activities involved in implementing the two schemes/algorithms were divided into three phases, namely Data Preparation, Encryption Phase, Decryption Phase and Data Recovery. Comparative performance evaluation of the two algorithms showed that encrypting an image with ECEG is more secure than encrypting it with MVEC algorithm. In addition, 60% of the performance metrics were in favor of ECEG scheme, while the remaining 40% were in favor of MVEC scheme. The overall evaluation result proves that ECEG scheme is more efficient in protecting medical images than ECEG.
